###  Getting started with Docker 

### Overview

Docker is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker enables you to separate your applications from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly. With Docker, you can manage your infrastructure in the same ways you manage your applications. By taking advantage of Docker’s methodologies for shipping, testing, and deploying code quickly, you can significantly reduce the delay between writing code and running it in production.

Docker provides the ability to package and run an application in a loosely isolated environment called a container. The isolation and security allow you to run many containers simultaneously on a given host. Containers are lightweight and contain everything needed to run the application, so you do not need to rely on what is currently installed on the host. You can easily share containers while you work, and be sure that everyone you share with gets the same container that works in the same way.

Docker streamlines the development lifecycle by allowing developers to work in standardized environments using local containers which provide your applications and services. Containers are great for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) workflows.

This lab includes the following exercises:

* [Exercise 1: Getting started with Docker](#exercise-1-getting-started-with-docker)
* [Exercise 2: Working with Docker Containers](#exercise-2--working-with-docker-containers)
* [Exercise 3: Working with Docker Images](#exercise-3-working-with-docker-images)
* [Exercise 4: Docker Compose](#exercise-4-docker-compose)
* [Exercise 5: Docker Network ](#exercise-5-docker-network)
* [Exercise 6: Working with Docker Volumes ](#exercise-6-working-with-docker-volumes)
